5-0 RIR (reps in reserve), 30% to 85% 1RM 
(repetition max) is our effective load (tension 
producing) stimulus range


rep range of around 10-20 for best mind-muscle 
connection for most people. Good for isolation 
exercises


should only be as full a ROM as is effective, safe, 
and logical in the long-term timescale of training, 
while conserving the intent of the exercise. 
In simple terms, do a ROM that gets you a good 
stretch, a good contraction, and don’t sweat the 
details too much.


if you’re in control of the weights and you’re not 
taking more than three seconds on any of the 
concentric, pause, or eccentric phase, you’re 
probably getting maximum or near-maximum stimulus


In real life training, you can go through this 
checklist very easily between sets to see if you’re 
recovered enough to go again. Below is an example 
checklist using chest training.
1. Are my pecs still burning from the last set?
2. Are my front delts and triceps ready to support 
   my chest in another set?
3. Do I feel mentally and physically like I can 
   push hard with my chest again?
4. Is my breathing more or less back to normal?

Most straight sets will have rest times of between 
30 seconds and about four minutes. Thirty seconds 
for smaller, weaker muscles in smaller, weaker 
lifters with good cardiovascular fitness and up to 
four minutes in larger, stronger muscles in larger, 
stronger lifters with poorer cardiovascular fitness. 
Where your specific sets fall in rest times will 
depend only on when you can answer the four rest 
time constraint questions to give yourself the 
all-clear for another productive set.
Keeping rest times consistent is also important for 
tracking performance. If you take longer and longer
rests times across a mesocycle, you may fool 
yourself into thinking performance is stable, 
when it would actually be getting worse with 
matched conditions (same rest times).


Down sets are straight sets done with an 
intentionally lighter load, after having done 
straight sets with a heavier load until productive 
training with that load could not continue.
For example, you have five sets of bent-rows at the
10-20 rep range. Your first three sets are 17, 13
and 10 reps. For the next sets, you are probably
too fatigued to continue using the same weight and
stay on the 10-20 rep range so you lower the weight.

Giant sets refer to a series of sets done to reach
a total rep goal, using a constant load and
without regard to the number of reps per set or
total sets. For example, you might choose the 10kg
deumbbells for lateral raises, and set a goal of
50 reps. Then, with every set but the last being
stopped at between 5-0 RIR, you do as many sets as
it takes to sum up a total of 50 reps.
They can also provide an opportunity to focus on
working muscle awareness. For example, you might
feel your rhomboids, your teres major, your biceps,
and even your forearms, but have trouble feeling
your lats, the target muscle, in lat pulldowns.
This will be easier to focus on when not assessing
RIR. Giant sets free your mind up to focus on just
working muscle awareness and rep counting.
Finally, giant sets are an option when you have
little control over load progression. For example,
if you do lateral raises with the 10kg and the
next set of dumbbells are 15kg - this is a big
jump for this lift. If you tried to progress 
directly form 10kg to 15kg, your reps per set will
fall off by massive margins. Instead, you can do
this giant set style by adding total reps over many
sets each week while keeping the weight the same
until you are ready to move up to the next option.
The big downside to giant sets is that it's very 
difficult to compare performance from week to week.

Non-overlapping involve doing a straight set with
an exervise for a given muscle followed immediately
by a straight set with an exercise that targets 
that muscle's antagonist or an unrelated muscle.
For example, doing a set of leg presses and for
quads and then immediately doing a set of
stiff-legged deadlifts for the hams. By doing this,
you are saving time by not resting between the two
sets. In the case of using antagonist muscles, the 
antagonists limit force production of agonist
movements to some extent, so when they fatigue,
performance might actually go up in their 
counterparts. For example, if you tire out your 
lats before doing incline presses, they pull down 
on your upper arms less during inclines and thus 
your incline perfomance might actually improve.
This is true up until systemic fatigue 
accumulates enough to inhibit performance. Because 
non-overlapping supersets can create quite a bit of
systemic fatigue however, and have you switching 
between opposing movements, they are not conducive 
to the best working muscle awareness and are for 
that reason not the best idea if you are not time
constrained.

Pre-exhaust supersets target overlapping muscle 
groups purposefully. You perform an isolation 
movement for a target muscle first (pre-exhausting 
it), and then, with minimal rest, perform a 
compound movement that involves that same muscle 
group. For example, triceps pushdowns, and right 
after, perform push-ups with a close grip. The 
purpose of this method is to pre-fatigue the target 
muscle with the isolation movement so that it 
becomes the limiting factor in the compound 
movement. This method allows the target muscle to 
accumulate more "effective reps" in that second 
movement as it will be close to failure from the 
pre-exhausting movement.
Sometimes a compound movement is limited by the 
early fatigue of a synergist muscle that is not the
target muscle for that exercise. For example, if 
you have easily fatigable front delts or chest, you 
may never get a chance to feel your triceps much in
close grip pressing because the chest and front 
delts fail far before the triceps are fully 
stimulated. But if you pre-exhaust the triceps with 
an isolation set, they can become the limiting 
factor in the close grip pressing and can be 
effectively stimulated with that compound movement.
This method also allows the target muscle to 
accumulate more metabolites than it would with just 
the isolation movement alone. By bringing in other 
muscles to assist the pre-exhausted muscle during 
the compound movement, the target muscle is able to 
get more stimulus than if you just did straight 
sets, and metabolite accumulation gets that much 
more of a boost.The target muscle also gets a 
bigger pump than it would with just the isolation 
movement alone. The added volume of work and 
metabolite accumulation causes an impressive degree 
of cell swelling in the target muscle.
The rep range on the isolation set of a pre-exhaust 
superset should be the 10-20 rep range. The load 
for the compound exercise in the superset should be
light enough to allow for at least five reps to be 
completed, and preferably between 5-10 reps.
The downside of this method is that they fatigue 
the target muscle considerably, making them 
innapropriate for use at the beginning of a 
training session in many cases. Pre-exhaust 
supersets are best done in the 2-3 RIR or lower 
range for largest growth effects. This type of 
superset can be used fairly regularly but is best 
saved for muscles that have been tough to target.

Myoreps